Modify Rule S5135(common text): Education Framework (APPSEC-75) (#1171)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S5135/impact.adoc

=== What is the potential impact?

In the context of a web application performing unsafe deserialization: +
After detecting the injection vector, attackers inject a carefully-crafted
payload into the application.

Below are some real-world scenarios that illustrate the various effects of an
attacker exploiting the vulnerability.

==== Privilege Escalation within the application

If the application relies on the properties of the deserialized object,
attackers can modify the data structure or content to escalate privileges or

> perform unwanted actions. In the context of an e-commerce application, this

Reviewer: I think the example is not bad to illustrate the danger but it does not seem to be related to the title "Privilege escalation within the application". Maybe a different title would fit this section better?

could be changing the number of products or prices.

==== Full application compromise

In this worst-case scenario, the attackers succeed in either:
* Injecting an object of the expected class, but with malicious properties that affect the object's behavior.

> * Injecting an object of a completely different class than expected, triggering code execution.

Reviewer: The way it is worded, it sounds a bit like only in the second case there would be code execution.

Author: Ok, I dispatched the two bullet points into the two sections

Depending on the attacker, code execution can be used with different
intentions:

* Download the internal server's data, most likely to sell it.
* Modify data, send malware - Most likely malware that mines cryptocurrencies.
* Stop services or exhaust resources (with fork bombs).

This threat is particularly insidious if the attacked organization does not
maintain a Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP).

==== Root privilege escalation and pivot

In this scenario, the attacker can do everything described in the previous
section. The difference is that the attacker additionally manages to elevate
his privileges as an administrator and attack other servers.

Here, the impact depends on how much the target company focuses on its Defense
In Depth. For example, the entire infrastructure can be compromised through a
combination of unsafe deserialization and misconfiguration:

> * Docker or Kubernetes clusters.

Reviewer: Since it is an enumeration, no dots.

```suggestion
* Docker or Kubernetes clusters
```

* cloud services

> * Network firewalls and routing.

Reviewer: Not a name (like Docker).

```suggestion
* network firewalls and routing
```

> * OS access control OS access control

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* OS access control
```

=== What is the potential impact?

In the context of a web application performing unsafe deserialization: +
After detecting the injection vector, attackers inject a carefully-crafted
payload into the application.

Below are some real-world scenarios that illustrate the various effects of an
attacker exploiting the vulnerability.

==== Application-specific attacks

> In this scenario, the attacker succeed in injecting an object of the expected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this scenario, the attackers succeed in injecting an object of the expected
```

class, but with malicious properties that affect the object's behavior.

If the application relies on the properties of the deserialized object,
attackers can modify the data structure or content to escalate privileges or
perform unwanted actions. +
In the context of an e-commerce application, this could be changing the number
of products or prices.

==== Full application compromise

> In this worst-case scenario, the attackers succeed in injecting an object of a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the worst-case scenario, the attackers succeed in injecting an object of a
```

completely different class than expected, triggering code execution.

Depending on the attacker, code execution can be used with different
intentions:

* Download the internal server's data, most likely to sell it.

> * Modify data, send malware - Most likely malware that mines cryptocurrencies.

Reviewer: "Most likely" is quite speculative. There are many types of malware.

```suggestion
* Modify data, install malware, for instance, malware that mines cryptocurrencies.
```

> * Stop services or exhaust resources (with fork bombs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Stop services or exhaust resources, for instance, with fork bombs.
```

As per the style guide, it is better to avoid the parentheses here.
